hard Has English been subject to a small degree of regional dialect variation for many centuries ?
midi What is one of six official languages of the United Nations ?
easy Has english vocabulary changed considerably over the centuries ?
hard Does english grammar have maximal inflection compared with most other Indo-European languages ?
easy Is english reform an attempt to improve collectively upon the English language ?
hard Does English hardly accept technical terms into common usage and often imports new words and phrases ?
easy Is the position of stress in English words not predictable ?
hard Is English a West Germanic language that was first spoken in late medieval England and is now a global lingua franca ?
easy Was Old English later transformed by two waves of invasion ?
hard Do estimates that include second language speakers vary greatly from 470 million to less than a billion depending on how literacy or mastery is defined and measured ?
easy Are there Latinate words that are used in everyday speech ?
easy Did English arise in the Anglo-Saxon kingdoms of England and what is now southeast Scotland ?
easy Does Case marking have almost disappeared from the language and mainly survives in pronouns ?
easy Is the language moderately analytic ?
easy Is in the United Kingdom much emphasis placed on Received Pronunciation , an educated dialect of South East England ?
easy Do English-speakers have many different accents , which often signal the speaker 's native dialect or language ?
easy Is english today probably the second largest language by number of native speakers , after Mandarin Chinese ?
easy Did English originate in the dialects of North Sea Germanic that were carried to Britain by Germanic settlers from various parts of what are now the Netherlands , northwest Germany , and Denmark ?
easy Is English one of the official languages of the United Nations and many other international organisations , including the International Olympic Committee ?
easy Does crystal claim that , combining native and non-native speakers , India now has more people who speak or understand English than any other country in the world ?
easy May a definition of word that works for one language not work well in another , with differences in morphology and orthography making cross-linguistic definitions and word-counting difficult , and potentially giving very different results ?
easy Did the findings come from a computer analysis of 5,195,769 digitised books ?
easy Does *surgō still survive in English , however , as sorrow ?
easy Has english word order moved from the Germanic V2 word order to being almost exclusively subject–verb–object ?
easy Have artificially simplified versions of the language been created that are easier for non-native speakers to read ?
easy Can familiarity with the etymology of groups of synonyms give English speakers greater control over their linguistic register ?
easy Have english-speaking children been found to take up to two years longer to learn to read than children in 12 other European countries ?
easy Did English replace German as the dominant language of science-related Nobel Prize laureates during the second half of the 20th century ?
easy Did a version of the language almost universally agree upon by educated English-speakers around the world is called formal written English ?
easy Are comparisons of the vocabulary size of English to that of other languages generally not taken very seriously by linguists and lexicographers ?
