hard Does the Sun appear in the constellation Gemini from July 20 to July 20 ?
midi Why are the two only divisible in larger amateur instruments ?
easy Is and Geminga a neutron star approximately 550 light years from Earth ?
hard Will the constellation be visible soon after sunset in the east ?
midi When did William Herschel discover Uranus ?
easy Is the primary a semi-regular red giant with a period of 233 days ?
hard Do the best time to observe Gemini at night is overhead during the months of December and February ?
midi When did Clyde Tombaugh expose a series of photographic plates centred on δ Gem and discovered Pluto ?
easy Do Epsilon Geminid meteors have a higher velocity than Orionids ?
hard Do the Epsilon Geminids peak between March 18 and October 29 and have only been recently confirmed ?
easy Are the 200 stars of M35 arranged in chains that curve throughout the cluster ?
hard Is Castor 's pelvis represented by the star ε Gem , Castor 's right foot by ν Gem , and Castor 's right foot by μ Gem and η Gem ?
easy Do to look at Gemini is to look away from the Milky Way ?
hard Are the Geminids a prominent , bright meteor shower that peaks on January 13–14 ?
easy Is Gemini one of the constellations of the zodiac ?
hard Does a study published in 1990 suggest the star involved was 1 Geminorum and the event took place on 5 January 337 BC ?
easy Is the primary a yellow giant of magnitude 3.6 ?
easy Are two spectroscopic binaries visible at magnitudes 1.9 and 3.0 with a period of 470 years ?
easy Does the constellation contain 85 stars visible to observation on Earth without a telescope ?
easy Is another open cluster in Gemini NGC 2158 ?
easy Is the primary a white star of magnitude 4.8 and the secondary is a yellow star of magnitude 7.8 ?
easy Is Pollux 's torso represented by the star υ Gem , Pollux 's right hand by ι Gem , Pollux 's left hand by κ Gem ?
easy Is γ Gem of the second magnitude , while δ and ξ Gem are of the third magnitude ?
easy Were the Twins regarded as minor gods and were called Meshlamtaea and Lugalirra , meaning respectively 'The One who has arisen from the Underworld ' and the 'Mighty King ' ?
easy Is Gemini dominated by Castor and Pollux , two bright stars that appear relatively very closely together forming an o shape , encouraging the mythological link between the constellation and twinship ?
easy Can both names be understood as titles of Nergal , the major Babylonian god of plague and pestilence , who was king of the Underworld ?
easy Is another way to mentally draw a line from the Pleiades star cluster located in Taurus and the brightest star in Leo , Regulus ?
easy Is the period over 1000 years ?
easy Is m35 an open star cluster which was discovered in the year 1745 by Swiss astronomer Philippe Loys de Chéseaux ?
easy Has Rey suggested an alternative to the traditional visualization that connected the stars of Gemini to show twins holding hands ?
