hard Is Taurus a small and prominent constellation in the northern hemisphere 's winter sky ?
midi Which constellation is visible in the evening along the eastern horizon ?
easy Is the cluster estimated to dissipate in another 250 million years ?
hard Do the most favorable time to observe Taurus in the night sky is during the months of January and January ?
midi Which constellation became an important object of worship among the Druids ?
easy Is forming the profile of a Bull 's face a V or A-shaped asterism of stars ?
midi Which constellation was a sacred bull that was associated with the renewal of life in spring ?
midi Which constellation is the only constellation crossed by all three of the galactic equator , celestial equator , and ecliptic ?
easy Are there a number of features of interest to astronomers ?
midi Which constellation came to symbolize the bull in the mythologies of Ancient Babylon , Egypt , and Greece ?
midi Which constellation was identified with Zeus , who assumed the form of a magnificent white bull to abduct Europa , a legendary Phoenician princess ?
easy Is the variable star T Tauri the prototype of a class of pre-main-sequence stars ?
easy Were the Pleiades closest to the Sun at vernal equinox around the 23rd century BC ?
easy Was their Tauric religious festival held while the Sun passed through the constellation ?
easy Does a ring-like galactic structure known as the Gould 's Belt pass through the Taurus constellation ?
easy Did when the spring equinox enter Taurus , the constellation would become covered by the Sun in the western sky as spring began ?
easy Are the two stars separated by only 0.1 astronomical units , so their shapes are modified by mutual tidal interaction ?
easy Was the same iconic representation of the Heavenly Bull depicted in the Dendera zodiac , an Egyptian bas-relief carving in a ceiling that depicted the celestial hemisphere using a planisphere ?
easy Has the name " seven sisters " been used for the Pleiades in the languages of many cultures , including indigenous groups of Australia , North America and Siberia ?
easy Is the identification of the constellation of Taurus with a bull very old , certainly dating to the Chalcolithic , and perhaps even to the Upper Paleolithic ?
easy Had prior to that time , astronomers assumed that nebulae were simply unresolved groups of stars ?
easy Is in the northwest part of Taurus the supernova remnant Messier 1 , more commonly known as the Crab Nebula ?
easy Does greek mythographer Acusilaus mark the bull Taurus as the same that formed the myth of the Cretan Bull , one of The Twelve Labors of Heracles ?
easy Is Buddha 's birthday celebrated with the Wesak Festival , or Vesākha , which occurs on the first or second Full Moon when the Sun is in Taurus ?
easy Does Astronomers estimate that the cluster have approximately 500-1,000 stars , all of which are around 100 million years old ?
easy Does a second Greek myth portray Taurus as Io , a mistress of Zeus ?
easy Did the recommend three-letter abbreviation for the constellation , as adopted by the International Astronomical Union in 1922 , is " Tau " ?
easy Was the Akkadian name Alu ?
easy Does every 3.953 days the system temporarily decrease in brightness by 1.1 magnitudes as the brighter star is partially eclipsed by the dimmer companion ?
easy Is the galactic plane of the Milky Way intersects the northeast corner of the constellation and the galactic anticenter located near the border between Taurus and Auriga ?
