hard Is the previous mayor Jason Burnett ?
midi When did renowned photographer Edward Weston move to Carmel ?
easy Does Original work and the plays of Shakespeare were the primary focus ?
hard Was Mission San Carlos and Father Serra The Mission San Carlos Borromeo de Carmelo founded on July 3 , 1770 in the nearby settlement of Monterey , but was relocated to Carmel by Father Junípero Serra due to the interaction between soldiers stationed at the nearby Presidio and the native Indians ?
midi When was the Arts and Crafts Hall built on an adjacent site ?
easy Did Poets Austin and Sterling perform their " private theatricals " there ?
hard Was after the 1906 San Francisco earthquake the village inundated with musicians , writers , painters and other artists turning to the founded artist colony after the bay city was destroyed ?
midi When was the Carmel Arts and Crafts Club formed to support and produce artistic works ?
easy Is Carmel-by-the-Sea an exceptionally dog-friendly city ?
midi When did Carmel become part of the United States ?
midi When did novelist Mary Austin move to Carmel ?
easy Are permits available without charge at City Hall ?
midi What is currently led by Spanish conductor Max Bragado Darman who joined the orchestra in 2004 ?
midi When did poet George Sterling come to Carmel and helped to establish the town 's literary base ?
easy Did the Carmel post office open the same year ?
midi When did a post office called Carmel open ?
midi When did the Carmel Bach Festival begin ?
easy Do most hotels allow dogs to stay with guests ?
midi When was a new Forest Theater Guild incorporated and continues to produce musicals , adding a film series in 1997 ?
midi When did the Carmel Sunset School construct a new auditorium , complete with Gothic-inspired architecture , with seating for 700 ?
easy Were for every 100 females there 77.6 males ?
midi When did the town 's rich Shakespearean tradition begin with a production of Twelfth Night , directed by Garnet Holme of UC Berkeley and featuring future mayors Perry Newberry and Herbert Heron , with settings designed by artist Mary DeNeale Morgan ?
midi When did Marcia Hovick 's Children 's Experimental Theater lease the indoor theater and continued until 2010 ?
easy Was construction completed in mid-1919 ?
easy Was the average household size 1.78 ?
easy Is Doug Schmitz City Administrator ?
easy Did the 2010 United States Census report that Carmel-by-the-Sea had a population of 3,722 ?
easy Was the median age 59.2 years ?
easy Was a photo of the fire from 1949 still on file 60 years later at the rebuilt theatre illustrating the loss to the city 's culture and history ?
easy Does the Monterey Symphony provide triple performances of a seven concert series as well as an extensive education program and special performances ?
