hard Have Esperanto business groups been inactive for many years ?
midi What is the most widely spoken constructed language in the world ?
easy Does Magic seem to be activated via the linguistic medium of blue ?
hard Was the use of Esperanto effectively banned till 1956 ?
midi When was the Bahá'í Esperanto-League for active Bahá'í supporters of Esperanto founded ?
easy Has Esperanto been placed in many proposed political situations ?
hard Is the vocabulary too small ?
midi When did a museum about Esperanto open in China ?
easy Are new words formed through extensive prefixing and suffixing ?
midi When did the Senate of Brazil pass a bill ?
midi What is rendered in blue-colored text ?
easy Does the Bahá'í Faith encourage the use of an auxiliary international language ?
midi When did the 15th edition of Ethnologue cite estimates that there were 200 to 2,000 native speakers ?
midi When was the territory annexed by the Kingdom of Prussia , without international recognition ?
easy Do Esperantists speak primarily in Esperanto at international Esperanto meetings ?
midi When did Zamenhof publish the first Esperanto dictionary , Universala Vortaro , which had a larger set of roots ?
midi When was an Avaaz petition created to make Esperanto one of the official languages of the European Union ?
easy Was at that time the dragon a symbol of the supernatural ?
midi When did the French Academy of Sciences recommend using Esperanto for international scientific communication ?
midi When was a second flag design chosen in a contest organized by the UEA celebrating the first centennial of the language ?
easy Does Esperanto have a notable presence in 120 countries ?
midi When was Esperanto the 32nd language accepted as adhering to the " Common European Framework of Reference for Languages " ?
midi When did spiritist Camilo Chaigneau write an article named " Spiritism and Esperanto " in the periodic La Vie d'Outre-Tombe recommending the use of Esperanto in a " central magazine " for all spiritists and esperantists ?
easy Does Esperanto have a notable online presence ?
easy Are Verbs not marked for person or number ?
easy Was the core vocabulary of Esperanto defined by Lingvo internacia , published by Zamenhof in 1887 ?
easy Was Esperanto conceived as a language of international communication , more precisely as a universal second language ?
easy Is Esperanto , looks , andor sounds artificial ?
easy Is word order comparatively free ?
easy Did the French Chamber of Commerce do research in the 1920s and reported in The New York Times in 1921 that Esperanto seemed to be the best business language ?
