hard Is the usual galaxy merger remnant and starburst galaxy NGC 6240 also in Ophiuchus ?
midi What is thought to be at the brink of becoming a type-1a supernova ?
easy Is Ophiuchus one of thirteen constellations that cross the ecliptic ?
hard Is Ophiuchus ɒfiˈjuːkəs a small constellation located around the celestial equator ?
midi When was the supernova of 1604 first observed ?
easy Will Astronomers estimate that the black holes merge in another billion years ?
hard Do in countries close to the equator Ophiuchus appears overhead in July around midnight and in the October evening sky ?
midi What is located opposite Orion in the sky ?
easy Does the constellation extend southward to −30° declination ?
hard Does the planet 's high density suggest that the planet may have a substantial component of low-density gas—possibly hydrogen or steam ?
midi When was a new nearby star cluster discovered associated with the 4th magnitude star Mu Ophiuchi ?
easy Is Ophiuchus depicted as a man grasping a serpent ?
midi What is called the Ophiuchus Superbubble ?
midi What is located to the left of β and just north of the V-shaped group of stars in an area that was once occupied by the now-obsolete constellation of Taurus Poniatovii ?
easy Did John Milton use Ophiuchus as the vehicle for an epic simile in Book 2 of Paradise Lost , comparing Satan to a comet burning across the length of Ophiuchus : 'on th ' other side  Incensed with indignation Satan stood  Unterrified , and like a comet burned  That fires the length of Opiuchus huge  In th ' arctic sky ' ?
easy Will Barnard 68 eventually collapse , inciting the process of star formation ?
easy Is RS Ophiuchi part of a class called recurrent novae , whose brightness increase at irregular intervals by hundreds of times in a period of just a few days ?
easy Is Ophiuchus located between Aquila , Serpens and Hercules , northwest of the center of the Milky Way ?
easy Are a determination of exactly where these stars visible on Earth would depend on atmospheric refraction , the Novaya Zemlya effect , mountains and clouds ?
easy Do confirmation of the fact that both nuclei contain black holes was obtained by spectra from the Chandra X-ray Observatory ?
easy Does Mamajek 2 appear to have formed in the same star-forming complex as the NGC 2516 cluster roughly 135 million years ago ?
easy Are the differences due to the fact that the time of year that the sun passes through a particular zodiac constellation 's position has slowly changed over the centuries from when the Greeks and Babylonians originally developed the Zodiac ?
