hard Is the history of large violins not well documented ?
midi What is sometimes indicated in written music by an arrowhead ?
easy Does String longevity depend on string quality and playing intensity ?
hard Does a combination of these techniques allow a player to produce a small variety of tonal effects ?
midi What is now located in the Ashmolean Museum of Oxford ?
easy Are some student bows made of fiberglass or various inexpensive woods ?
hard Do elaborate passages in artificial harmonics can be found in virtuoso violin literature , especially of the 19th and late 20th centuries ?
midi Why is Ebony the preferred material ?
easy Is the pitch of the open string called the fundamental frequency ?
easy Has violinist Sean Mackin been a member of the band since 1997 ?
easy Is the most essential part of bowing technique the bow grip ?
easy Is a person who makes or repairs violins called a luthier ?
easy May these violins need to be hooked up to an amplifier ?
easy Is the violin played either seated or standing up ?
easy Is the tuning G-D-A-E used for most violin music ?
easy Are natural harmonics played on an open string ?
easy Do both types come from the same tree species ?
easy Can Martelé be played in any part of the bow ?
easy Is moving between positions called shifting ?
easy Do Strings have a limited lifetime ?
easy Is each node at an integer division of the string , for example half-way or one-third along the length of the string ?
easy Is another prevalent tuning with these intervals B♭-F-B♭-F , which corresponds to Sa-Pa-Sa-Pa in the Indian carnatic classical music style ?
easy Are two comprehensive works Henryk Heller 's seven-volume Theory of Harmonics , published by Simrock in 1928 , and Michelangelo Abbado 's five-volume Tecnica dei suoni armonici published by Ricordi in 1934 ?
easy Are most E strings unwound , either plain or gold-plated steel ?
easy Have doom metal band My Dying Bride used violin as a part of their line-up throughout many of their albums ?
easy Is sometimes moving to a higher position necessary for the left hand to be able to reach both notes at once ?
easy Does " Mars " from Gustav Holst 's " The Planets " use col legno to play a repeated rhythm in 54 time signature ?
easy Did a note mark pizz ?
easy Will a trill initiated from just hammering the finger up and down on the fingerboard create a harsher quality than with a vibrato trill ?
easy Can an electric violin with a resonating body that produces listening-level sound independently of the electric elements be called an electro-acoustic violin ?
