hard Was after the Fourth Crusade the Duchy of Athens founded ?
midi When was Athens the host city of the first modern-day Olympic Games ?
easy Is Metaxourgeio frequently described as a transition neighborhood ?
hard Is the previous mayor of Athens Giorgos Kaminis ?
midi When did Greece 's national soccer team win the UEFA Cup Finals in Portugal ?
easy Are Snowfalls more frequent in the northern suburbs of the city ?
hard Are June and August the driest months , where thunderstorms occur sparsely once or twice a month ?
midi When did Athens host the first modern Olympic Games ?
easy Has Athens been continuously inhabited for at least 7000 years ?
midi When was the National Garden of Athens completed ?
midi When was Athens awarded the 2004 Summer Olympics ?
easy Are further extensions planned towards the major commercial port of Piraeus ?
midi When did Athens host the 2004 Summer Olympics ?
midi When did Athens become the capital of Greece ?
easy Has Athens been a destination for travellers since antiquity ?
midi Why is Athens recognised as a global city ?
midi When did the area probably contain 200,000 people ?
easy Is the city a world centre of archaeological research ?
midi When was the Organising Committee 's president replaced by Gianna Angelopoulos-Daskalaki , who was the president of the original Bidding Committee in 1997 ?
midi When did the city have a population of 123,000 and the event helped boost the city 's international profile ?
easy Does the Saronic Gulf lie to the southwest ?
midi When did the population grow to 10,000 ?
midi When was Athens ranked the world 's 39th richest city by purchasing power and the 77th most expensive in a UBS study ?
easy Does Athens incorporate architectural styles ranging from Greco-Roman and Neoclassical to modern ?
easy Was during the medieval period the name of the city rendered once again in the singular as Ἀθήνα ?
easy Is Athens built around a number of hills ?
easy Has Athens hosted the Summer Olympic Games twice , in 1896 and 2004 ?
easy Is ISAP 's occupancy rate 600,000 passengers daily ?
easy Were the 2004 Games judged a success , as both security and organization worked well , and only a few visitors reported minor problems mainly concerning accommodation issues ?
easy Do concerts and theatrical shows like those of the troupe Cirque du Soleil have recently been held in the complex ?
