hard Have a small number of concertos and sonatas been written for the cello ?
midi Why are Carbon fibre instruments particularly suitable for outdoor playing ?
easy Do both Rao and Lesh play the cello sitting cross-legged on the floor ?
hard Have more expensive instruments typically painted purfling ?
easy Was in the Baroque period the cello held between the calves ?
hard Was the size not standardized till around 1750 ?
easy Was the direct ancestor to the violoncello the bass violin ?
hard Is below the main body the carved neck , which leads to a pegbox and the scroll ?
easy Do well known players include Natalie Haas and Mike Block ?
hard Do compositions from the late 20th century include Edward Elgar 's Cello Concerto in E minor , Claude Debussy 's Sonata for Cello and Piano , and unaccompanied cello sonatas by Zoltán Kodály and Paul Hindemith ?
easy Is the Prelude from the First Suite particularly famous ?
hard Did Cellos make before approximately 1700 tended to be considerably smaller than those made and commonly-played today ?
easy Is Rosin applied by the player to make the hairs sticky ?
easy Do principal players always sit closest to the audience ?
easy May performers be asked to sight read orchestral music ?
easy Is a person who plays the cello called a cellist ?
easy Do Bows need to be re-haired periodically ?
easy Was the endpin " introduced by Adrien Servais c. 1845 to give the instrument greater stability " ?
easy Are there many accessories for the cello ?
easy Are Cellos part of the standard symphony orchestra , which usually includes eight to twelve players ?
easy Are Cellos made by luthiers , specialists in building and repairing stringed instruments , ranging from guitars to violins ?
easy Is a cello bow roughly 10 grams heavier than a viola bow , which in turn is roughly 10 grams heavier than a violin bow ?
easy Are there pieces for cello solo , J.S ?
easy Is the name cello a contraction of the Italian violoncello , which means " little violone " ?
easy Are some familiar " concertos " Richard Strauss ' tone poem Don Quixote , Tchaikovsky 's Variations on a Rococo Theme , Bloch 's Schelomo and Bruch 's Kol Nidrei ?
easy Does romantic era repertoire include the Robert Schumann Concerto , the Antonín Dvořák Concerto as well as the two sonatas and the Double Concerto by Johannes Brahms ?
easy Are orchestral auditions typically held in front of a panel that includes the conductor , the Concertmaster , the Principal cellist and other principal players ?
easy Does among the most well-known Baroque work for the cello are Johann Sebastian Bach 's six unaccompanied Suites ?
easy Was Bass guitarist Mike Rutherford of Genesis originally a cellist and included some cello parts in their Foxtrot album ?
easy Are black fittings on low-cost instruments often made from inferior wood that has been blackened or " ebonized " to look like ebony which is much harder and more expensive ?
