hard Was Aries not fully accepted as a constellation till classical times ?
midi When did the Jodrell Bank Observatory discover the Daytime Arietids ?
easy Are the Delta Arietids another meteor shower radiating from Aries ?
hard Is another usual galaxy in Aries Segue 2 ?
midi When was Mesarthim discovered to be a double star by Robert Hooke ?
easy Did other Polynesian peoples recognize Aries as a constellation ?
midi What is a weakly barred spiral galaxy with loosely wound arms ?
midi When did Johann Hevelius rename the constellation " Musca " ?
easy Did Stewart adapt the World War II-era radar systems for meteor observations ?
midi When were the official boundaries of Aries defined ?
midi Why are the meteors sometimes visible before dawn ?
easy Did medieval Muslim astronomers depict Aries in various ways ?
midi When were the same stars used by Jakob Bartsch to create a constellation called Vespa , representing a wasp ?
midi When did Petrus Plancius introduce Apes , a constellation representing a bee ?
easy Are the primary and secondary separated by 3.2 arcseconds ?
midi Why did the shift in identification from the constellation as the Agrarian Worker to the Ram likely occur in later Babylonian tradition ?
easy Does Aries contain several stars with extrasolar planets ?
easy Did none of these constellation become widely accepted ?
easy Is ε Arietis a binary star with two white components ?
easy Are the two components separated by 1.5 arcseconds ?
easy Is Aries one of the constellations of the zodiac ?
easy Are the few deep-sky objects in Aries very dim ?
easy Is the angle between the two components 1° ?
easy Are all three commonly used for navigation ?
easy Is the spectral class of the primary A5 ?
easy Is Aries home to several meteor showers ?
easy Is NGC 821 an E6 elliptical galaxy ?
easy Did before that , the stars of Aries form a farmhand ?
easy Is Arp 276 a different pair of interacting galaxies in Aries , consisting of NGC 935 and IC 1801 ?
easy Does the earliest identifiable reference to Aries as a distinct constellation come from the boundary stones that date from 1350 to 1000 BC ?
