hard Are a large number of people capable of conversing in Klingon ?
midi Why are a daily conversation or a perfect translation of literature difficult ?
easy Does a character say that Ian " found a Klingon dictionary " online ?
hard Are a large number of people capable of conversing in Klingon ?
midi What is exemplified by the practice of pabHa ' , which Marc Okrand translates as " to misfollow the rules " or " to follow the rules wrongly " ?
easy Do Google Search and Minecraft each have a Klingon language setting ?
hard Do August your rival have an ugly neighbor ?
midi When did a Chicago Theatre company present a version of Charles Dickens ' A Christmas Carol in Klingon language and a Klingon setting ?
easy Do many English words do not have direct translations into Klingon ?
hard Were a large number of non-Klingon characters later depicted in Star Trek as having learned to speak Klingon , notably Jean-Luc Picard and Jadzia Dax ?
easy Did an important concept to spoken and write Klingon is canonicity ?
hard Has new vocabulary been collected in a list maintained by the KLI till 2005 and has since then been followed up by Klingon expert Lieven Litaer ?
easy Does the Klingon Language Institute exist to promote the language ?
easy Was Klingon subsequently developed by Okrand into a full-fledged language ?
easy Do klingon nouns take suffixes to indicate grammatical number ?
easy Have hobbyists around the world studied the Klingon language ?
easy Had two scenes with Klingon phrases been cut from the film ?
easy Do winning sentences include : jIl moH ghajjaj jaghHomlIj ?
easy Does one of the children speak a few phrases in Klingon ?
easy Does Klingon have twenty-one consonants and five vowels ?
easy Is clipped Klingon especially useful in situations where speed is a decisive factor ?
easy Does Klingon follow a strict syllable structure ?
easy Is the opera 'u ' entirely in Klingon ?
easy Is revenge a dish best served cold ?
easy Are if any syllables ending in ⟨'⟩ present , the stress shifts to those syllables ?
easy Does Blood represent freedom ?
easy Is today a good day to die ?
easy Is a design principle of the Klingon language the great degree of lexical-cultural correlation in the vocabulary ?
easy Does CBS Television Studios own the copyright on the official dictionary and other canonical descriptions of the language ?
easy Do Chuck Bartowski and Bryce Larkin communicate in Klingon when nobody else should understand and to verify their identity ?
