hard Does Al-Mafraq bridge connect the city to Reem Island and was completed in late 2011 ?
midi Which country worked in the pearl business and traded with others ?
easy Does the coastal area contain pockets of wetland and mangrove colonies ?
hard Are street taxis hardly recognised ?
midi Which country has grown to be a cosmopolitan metropolis ?
easy Has recently the government been diversifying their economic plans ?
hard Do in an attempt to entice people to use the bus system , all routes were zero-fare till the end of 2008 ?
midi When did the Abu Dhabi Jiu-Jitsu Schools Program begin ?
easy Must directions often be given based on nearby landmarks ?
midi Which country has a diverse and multicultural society ?
midi When did New York University open a government-sponsored satellite campus in Abu Dhabi ?
easy Were approximately 79.6 % of the population expatriates ?
midi When did the Department of Transport begin public bus service in Abu Dhabi with four routes ?
midi When was Internet introduced into Abu Dhabi ?
easy Are a majority of mosques Maliki or Muwahhid oriented ?
midi When does the Department of Transport plan to have 21 bus routes in the city , operated by 820 buses ?
midi Which country is the fourth most expensive city for expatriate employees in the region , and in 2014 was the 68th most expensive big city in the world ?
easy Can sunny blue skies be expected throughout the year ?
midi When did the city proper have a population of 921,000 ?
midi When was the population of the emirate 1,463,491 ?
easy Are football and cricket very popular in the city ?
midi When did a new terminal open ?
midi When did the company discover the Bu Hasa field and ADMA followed in 1965 with the discovery of the Zakum offshore field ?
easy Are there many parks throughout the city ?
easy Have all the old taxis been phased out ?
easy Has the development of tall buildings been encouraged in the Abu Dhabi Plan 2030 , which will lead to the construction of many new skyscrapers over the next decade , particularly in the expansion of Abu Dhabi 's central business district such as the new developments on Al Sowwah Island and Al Reem Island ?
easy Does the city 's per capita electricity consumption is about 41,000 kWh and the total supplied is 8,367 MW as of 2007 ?
easy Did Fortune magazine and CNN state in 2007 that Abu Dhabi is the richest city in the world , having been between $ 800 billion to approximately $ 875 billion USD ?
easy Are a total of 1,360 buses expected to be in operation by 2010 ?
easy Is a massive expansion of public transport anticipated within the framework of the government 's Surface Transport Master Plan 2030 ?
