hard Is Moscow 's architecture world-famous ?
midi What is a Russian Federal Agency for Health and Social Development ?
easy Does each station handle trains from different parts of Europe and Asia ?
hard Are there five mosques in the city ?
midi When did Moscow host the first World Youth Games – see 1998 World Youth Games ?
easy Does Moscow have always been a popular destination for tourists ?
midi When was the project conceived by the Moscow government ?
midi When did Moscow rank top on the list of most expensive cities for the third year in a row ?
easy Is another strong basketball club from Moscow MBC Dynamo Moscow ?
midi When did the plague epidemics ravage Moscow ?
midi When did Mercer Human Resources Consulting name Moscow the world 's most expensive city for expatriate employees , ahead of perennial winner Tokyo , due to the stable Russian ruble as well as increasing housing prices within the city ?
easy Does Moscow employ several train stations to serve the city ?
midi When did the Bolshevik government declare Russia a secular state , which in practice meant that religion was repressed and society was to become atheistic ?
midi When did the Crimean Tatars attack and sacked Moscow , burning everything but the Kremlin ?
easy Did Moscow 's opposition against foreign domination grow ?
midi When was the newest line built ?
midi When did the line open ?
easy Are major thoroughfares through Moscow-City the Third Ring and Kutuzovsky Prospekt ?
midi When was Moscow the scene of the failed coup attempt by the government members opposed to the reforms of Mikhail Gorbachev ?
midi When did prince Dmitry Donskoy of Moscow lead a united Russian army to an important victory over the Tatars in the Battle of Kulikovo ?
easy Have Former rugby league heavyweights RC Lokomotiv entered the same league as of 2011 ?
easy Is the Tretyakov Gallery split into two buildings ?
easy Was medieval Moscow 's design of concentric walls and intersecting radial thoroughfares ?
easy Was the Kremlin rebuilt in the 15th century ?
easy Is Daylight saving time no longer observed ?
easy Were the Games finally awarded to London ?
easy Will Plaques on house exteriors inform passers-by that a well-known personality once lived there ?
easy Does Moscow have an extensive tram system , which first opened in 1899 ?
easy Are there 93 theaters , 132 cinemas and 24 concert halls in Moscow ?
easy Is among the churches reconstructed in the 1990s an impressive new Cathedral of Christ the Savior which once more has become a picturesque landmark of the city ?
