midi Why are Renaissance and Baroque guitars easily distinguished ?
midi What is a common feature on steel-string acoustic guitars ?
easy Does jazz guitarist Stanley Jordan use the all-fourths tuning EADGCF ?
midi When did Uli Jon Roth develop the " Sky Guitar , " with a vastly extended number of frets , which was the first guitar to venture into the upper registers of the violin ?
easy Are bass strings for both instruments wound rather than monofilament ?
easy Are Bindings that edge the finger and sound boards sometimes inlaid ?
easy Are traditional electromagnetic pickups either single-coil or double-coil ?
easy Were Martin among the most influential designers of their time ?
easy Do three-cone resonators always use a specialized metal bridge ?
easy Are many influences cited as antecedents to the modern guitar ?
easy Do many musicians use open tunings when playing slide guitar ?
easy Do electric guitars sometimes mount pickups and electronics on the pickguard ?
easy Have electric guitars had a continuing profound influence on popular culture ?
easy Does the resulting sound closely mimic numerous instruments ?
easy Is Chord inversion especially simple in major-thirds tuning ?
easy Have Guitars varying accommodations for attaching a strap ?
easy Do some piezo-equipped guitars use a hexaphonic pickup ?
easy Do some slide players use a so-called Dobro guitar ?
easy Does each set of twelve fret represents an octave ?
easy Are modern pickups tailored to the sound desired ?
easy Have many scordatura been used on the guitar ?
easy Does pick come in many shapes and sizes ?
easy Is the guitar a transposing instrument ?
easy Have become popular with some players ?
easy Are there many varied bridge designs ?
easy Do all three types offer stability ?
easy May a variety of tunings be used ?
easy Is " Hex " a prefix meaning six ?
easy Is Martin the best known ?
easy Do rosette designs vary from simple concentric circles to delicate fretwork mimicking the historic rosette of lutes ?
