hard Is the second principal part the present infinitive inactive ?
midi When did Classicist Mary Beard write in The Times Literary Supplement ?
easy Are there many websites and forums maintained in Latin by enthusiasts ?
hard Did late Old Latin ⟨ei⟩ usually change to Classical ⟨ī⟩ ?
easy Do all natural languages contain ambiguities of one sort or another ?
hard Are some notes concerning the mapping of Latin phonemes to English graphemes given above ?
easy Were many of these words used once by the author and then forgotten ?
hard Is the difference described in table above ?
easy Did these spoken Latins evolve into particular Romance languages ?
hard Does the Latin Wikipedia have less than 100,000 articles written in Latin ?
easy Has the Latin language been passed down through various forms ?
easy Did classical Latin distinguish between long and short vowels ?
easy Have many international auxiliary languages been heavily influenced by Latin ?
easy Does no inherited verbal knowledge of the ancient pronunciation of Latin exist ?
easy Did these sequences sometimes do not represent diphthongs ?
easy Is instruction in Latin an essential aspect of Classics ?
easy Has the number of letters in the Latin alphabet varied ?
easy Did double consonants in Latin are pronounced long ?
easy Has most recently a Latin edition of the 1979 USA Anglican Book of Common Prayer appeared ?
easy Might medieval Latin use fui and fueram instead ?
easy Did ⟨i V⟩ represent both vowels and consonants ?
easy Did classical Latin have several diphthongs ?
easy Are there six tenses in the Latin language ?
easy Does Inflection use affixing and infixing ?
easy Does the semantic element do not change ?
easy Are latin inflections never prefixed ?
easy Is Affixing prefixing and suffixing ?
easy Do additional resources include phrasebooks and resources for rendering everyday phrases and concepts into Latin , such as Meissner 's Latin Phrasebook ?
easy Are about 270,000 inscriptions known ?
easy Were the two most common ⟨ae au⟩ ?
