hard Does the Sun appear in the constellation Cancer from June 21 to August 9 ?
midi What is most easily observed when Cancer is high in the sky ?
easy Is the secondary a white A-type main sequence star of magnitude 6.6 ?
hard Is the secondary of magnitude 12.0 and is visible in large amateur telescopes ?
easy Is Cancer one of the twelve constellations of the zodiac ?
hard Is Praesepe also one of the smaller open clusters visible ?
easy Is Epsilon Cancri the brightest member at magnitude 6.3 ?
hard Can both hardly be seen with a small telescope ?
easy Are the two brightest components a binary star with an orbital period of 1100 years ?
hard Does a 1488 Latin translation depict cancer as a small crayfish , which also is the constellation 's name in most Germanic languages ?
easy Does Altarf represent a part of Cancer 's body ?
hard Does 55 Cancri consist of a yellow dwarf and a larger red dwarf , with five planets orbiting the primary star ?
easy Is located at the center of the constellation Praesepe , one of the closest open clusters to Earth and a popular target for amateur astronomers ?
hard Is Cancer the dimmest of the zodiacal constellations , having only two stars below the fourth magnitude ?
easy Is Cancer best known among stargazers as the home of Praesepe , an open cluster also called the Beehive Cluster , located right in the centre of the constellation ?
hard Is QSO J0842+1835 a quasar used to measure the speed of gravity in VLBI experiment conducted by Edward Fomalont and Sergei Kopeikin in April 2002 ?
easy Does there also appear to be a strong connection between the Babylonian constellation and ideas of death and a passage to the underworld , which may be the origin of these ideas in later Greek myths associated with Hercules and the Hydra ?
easy Is the star’s primary component a white A-type main sequence dwarf , while the companion is a magnitude 11 star ?
easy Is the creation of the constellation explained in Greek mythology by the short-lived association of the crab Karkinos with one of the Twelve Labors of Heracles , in which Heracles battled the multi-headed Lernaean Hydra ?
easy Did the Greeks and Romans identify the nebulous object as a manger from which two donkeys , represented by the neighbouring stars [ 1213 ] Asellus Borealis and [ 1210 ] Asellus Australis , were eating ?
easy Does M 44 contain about 50 stars , the brightest of which are of the sixth magnitude ?
easy Was in Babylonia the constellation known as MUL.AL.LUL , a name which can refer to both a crab and a snapping turtle ?
easy Is OJ 287 a BL Lac object located 3.5 billion light years away that has produced quasi-periodic optical outbursts going back approximately 120 years , as first apparent on photographic plates from 1891 ?
easy Is iota Cancri a wide double star ?
easy Have some scholars suggested that Karkinos was a late addition to the myth of Heracles in order to make the Twelve Labors correspond to the twelve signs of the Zodiac ?
