hard Did Persian and Arabic vocabulary give 'authentic ' pronunciations cause different difficulty ?
midi When did the Constituent Assembly adopt Hindi as the Official Language of the Union ?
easy Does excessive use of tatsam words create problems for native speakers ?
hard Is Uttar Adhunik the post-modernist period of Hindi literature , marked by a questioning of late trends that copied the West as well as the excessive ornamentation of the Chhayavaadi movement , and by a return to simple language and natural themes ?
midi When could the best figure Ethnologue find for speakers of actual Hindustani Hindi was 180 million ?
easy Is Modern Standard Hindi one of the official languages of India ?
midi What is named after Mahavir Prasad Dwivedi , who played a major role in establishing the Modern Hindi language in poetry and broadening the acceptable subjects of Hindi poetry from the traditional ones of religion and romantic love ?
easy Are Article 1 — All human beings born free and equal in dignity and rights ?
easy Is National-language status for Hindi a long-debated theme ?
easy Is Hindi written in Devanagari script also called Nagari ?
easy Is Hindi one of the seven languages of India that can be used to make web addresses . ?
easy May each also designate a " co-official language " ?
easy Does Devanagari consist of 11 vowels and 33 consonants and is written from left to right ?
easy Did the rising numbers of newspapers and magazines make Hindustani popular with the educated people ?
easy Do Ardhatatsam words : Such words have typically undergone sound changes subsequent to being borrowed ?
easy Is the following a sample text in High Hindi , of the Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights : अनुच्छेद 1 — सभी मनुष्यों को गौरव और अधिकारों के विषय में जन्मजात स्वतन्त्रता और समानता प्राप्त हैं। उन्हें बुद्धि और अन्तरात्मा की देन प्राप्त है और परस्पर उन्हें भाईचारे के भाव से बर्ताव करना चाहिए। Anucched 1 — Sabhī manuṣyõ ko gaurav aur adhikārõ ke vishay mẽ janmajāt svatantratā aur samāntā prāpt hai ?
easy Was Hindustani with heavily Sanskritised vocabulary or Sahityik Hindi popularised by the writings of Swami Dayananda Saraswati , Bhartendu Harishchandra and others ?
easy Does Hindi have also impacted the language of technology , with words such as 'avatar ' used in computer sciences , artificial intelligence and even robotics ?
easy Is the trend different in Hindi cinema where more and more English , Persian , Turkish and Arabic vocabulary is preferred ?
easy Was the person who brought realism in the Hindi prose literature Munshi Premchand , who is considered as the most revered figure in the world of Hindi fiction and progressive movement ?
easy Is the dialect of Hindustani on which Standard Hindi based is Khariboli , the vernacular of Delhi and the surrounding western Uttar Pradesh and southern Uttarakhand ?
easy Did the Hindi speak there is Fiji Hindi , a form of Awadhi , not Modern Standard Hindi 's Hindustani ?
easy Is medieval Hindi literature marked by the influence of Bhakti movement and the composition of long , epic poems ?
easy Is Hindi written in the Devanagari script and uses more Sanskrit words , whereas Urdu is written in the Perso-Arabic script and uses more Arabic and Persian words ?
easy Did Article 1 — All human-beings to dignity and rights ' matter in from-birth freedom and equality acquire is ?
easy Are Deshaj words : These words that were not borrowings but do not derive from attested Indo-Aryan words either ?
easy Shall Article 343 of the Indian constitution states " The official language of the Union be Hindi in Devanagari script ?
easy Are Standard Hindi loans words divided into five principal categories : Tatsam words : These are words which are spelt the same in Hindi as in Sanskrit ( except for the absence of final case inflexions ) ?
