hard Is indian music traditionally practice-oriented and till the 20th century did not employ written notations as the primary media of instruction , understanding , or transmission ?
easy Are these notation systems used for Indian instruments including the tabla ?
hard Is Fine tuning achieved while striking vertically on the braided portion of the head using a large , heavy hammer ?
easy Has Taals developed since the Vedic or Upanishad eras in India ?
hard Is the heel of the hand used to apply pressure or in a sliding motion on the smaller drum so that the pitch is changed during the sound 's decay ?
easy Do musicians then recognize six gharānās – schools or traditions – of tabla ?
easy Is there recent iconography of the tabla dating back to 1799 ?
easy Were gharānā secrets closely guarded and often only passed along family lines ?
easy May the bāyāñ be made of any of a number of materials ?
easy Does the instrument consist of a pair of hand drums of contrasting sizes and timbres ?
easy Is Tabla playing a mathematically calculated process ?
easy Is the right hand drum called a tabla and the left hand drum is called a dagga or baya ?
easy Are the roots for tabla invention found in India ?
easy Was Tabla widely spread across ancient India ?
easy Are there Hindu temple carvings of double hand drums resembling tabla that date back to 500 BC ?
easy Is there much debate as to whether the concept of gharānā even still applies to modern players ?
easy Does a Hosaleshvara temple in Karnatak show a carving of woman playing Tabla and dance performance ?
easy Is thus there no universal system of written notation for the rest of the world to study Indian music ?
easy Is the tuning range limited although different dāyāñs are produced in different sizes , each with a different range ?
easy Is the tabla used in some other Asian musical traditions outside of Indian subcontinent , such as in the Indonesian dangdut genre ?
easy Is the drum tuned to a specific note , usually either the tonic , dominant or subdominant of the soloist 's key and thus complements the melody ?
easy Does the carvings in Bhaja Caves in the state of Maharashtra in India show a woman playing Tabla and another woman performing a dance , dating back to 200 BC ?
easy Is sometimes wood used , especially in old bāyāñs from the Punjab ?
easy Has Rebecca Stewart suggested that the tabla was most likely a product of experiments with existing drums such as pakhawaj , mridang , dholak and naqqara ?
easy Does Hindustani classical music have two standard notation systems , one designed by V. N. Bhatkhande and the other by V. D. Paluskar ?
easy Do others flourish at faster speeds , like Jhap or Rupak talas ?
easy Are these two skins bound together with a complex woven braid that gives the assembly enough strength to be tensioned on the shell ?
easy Was in the days of court patronage the preservation of these distinctions important in order to maintain the prestige of the sponsoring court ?
easy Does the Tabla use a " complex finger tip and hand percussive " technique played from the top unlike the Pakhawaj and mridangam which mainly use the full palm and are sideways in motion and are more limited in terms of sound complexity ?
easy Do some think the era of gharānā has effectively come to an end as the unique aspects of each gharānā have been mostly lost through the mixing of styles and the socio-economic difficulties of maintaining lineage purity through rigorous training ?
