hard Have mountain bikers created world-famous trails across the North Shore ?
midi When was over 16 % of the city 's budget spent on police protection ?
easy Has Cycling become Vancouver 's fastest-growing mode of transportation ?
hard Did alcohol prohibition begin in the First World War and lasted till 1921 , when the provincial government established control over alcohol sales , a practice still in place today ?
midi When were most of the base facilities transferred to the City of Vancouver ?
easy Did a second riot take place following the 2011 Stanley Cup Finals ?
hard Does the Granville Entertainment District have the city 's highest concentration of bars and nightclubs with closing times of 3am , in addition to various after-hours clubs open till late morning on weekends ?
midi When did Metro Vancouver host the World Police and Fire Games ?
easy Are altogether there twenty-two branches containing 2.25 million volumes ?
midi When did less than 7 % of the population belong to a visible minority group ?
midi When do and recently expanded to include a three-page B.C ?
easy Did during the summer of 2008 Vancouver host the World Ultimate Championships ?
midi When were more than 260 productions filmed in Vancouver ?
midi When was a railway among the inducements for British Columbia to join the Confederation ?
easy Is dances for a Small Stage a semi-annual dance festival ?
midi When did the BC Titans of the International Basketball League play their inaugural season ?
midi When is the Vancouver Art Gallery housed downtown in the neoclassical former courthouse built ?
easy Is Vancouver a film and television production centre ?
midi When was the City of Vancouver incorporated ?
midi When was Vancouver ranked by Demographia as the second most unaffordable in the world , rated as even more severely unaffordable in 2012 than in 2011 ?
easy Does the central branch contain 1.5 million volumes ?
midi When did Vancouver have the worst traffic congestion in Canada and the second highest in North America , behind Los Angeles ?
midi When did Vancouver slip to fourth place overall at 1.19 billion , although the region still leads Canada in foreign production ?
easy Does the British Columbia Institute of Technology in Burnaby provide polytechnic education ?
midi When did the colonial government survey the settlement and laid out a townsite , renamed " Granville " in honour of the then-British Secretary of State for the Colonies , Lord Granville ?
midi Why was concern expressed that Vancouver 's increasing homelessness problem may be exacerbated by the Olympics ?
easy Is Vancouver classed as a Beta global city ?
easy Do radio stations with news departments include CBC Radio One , CKNW and News 1130 ?
easy Is SFU 's main campus in Burnaby ?
easy Is the Evergreen Line planned to link the cities of Coquitlam and Port Moody with the SkyTrain system by summer 2016 ?
