hard Did Cicero draw Orion in a different fashion to the modern depiction ?
midi Which constellation is very useful as an aid to locating other stars ?
easy Is Mintaka 915 light years away and shines with magnitude 2.21 ?
hard Is just west of Chi1 the Mira-type variable red giant U Orionis ?
midi What is the twenty-seventh brightest star in the night sky ?
easy Did the angry goddess try to dispatch Orion with a scorpion ?
hard Do three stars compose a large triangle that marks the head ?
midi What is one of the most conspicuous and recognizable constellations in the night sky ?
easy Have further Western European and Arabic depictions followed these two models ?
midi What is one of the most intense regions of stellar formation visible within our galaxy ?
midi What is the second brightest star in Orion , and is a semiregular variable star ?
easy Did the Armenians identify their legendary patriarch and founder Hayk with Orion ?
midi What is known as Shen （參） , literally meaning " three " , for the stars of Orion 's Belt ?
midi What is a triple star some 800 light years distant , with the primary star being a hot blue supergiant and the brightest class O star in the night sky ?
easy Is the variable star V380 Orionis embedded in NGC 1999 ?
midi What is a multiple star system , composed of a large B-type blue giant and a more massive O-type white star ?
midi Which constellation is oriented south-upward , and the belt and sword are sometimes called the saucepan or pot in Australia and New Zealand ?
easy Is looking for Orion 's Belt in the night sky the easiest way to locate the constellation ?
midi Why was Sah closely linked with Sopdet , the goddess who personified Sirius ?
easy Does Bellatrix serve as Orion 's left shoulder ?
easy Is also nearby the very young star FU Orionis ?
easy Are there many folk songs narrating the Harnu ?
easy Are there alternative ways to visualise Orion ?
easy Is the shower 's parent body Halley 's Comet ?
easy Is Bellatrix considered a B-type blue giant ?
easy Do phi-1 and Phi-2 Orionis make up the base ?
easy Can coming from the border with the constellation Gemini as many as 20 meteors per hour be seen ?
easy Is another famous nebula IC 434 , the Horsehead Nebula , near ζ Orionis ?
easy Will all those ... moments ... be lost in time , like tears ... in ... rain ?
easy Does just southwest of Alnitak lie Sigma Orionis , a multiple star system composed of five stars that have a combined apparent magnitude of 3.7 and lying 1150 light years distant ?
