hard Is the situation different for ⟨ll⟩ ?
midi When was the number of Chavacano-speakers estimated at 1.2 million ?
easy Is the lexical similarity with Portuguese considerably greater at 89 % ?
hard Does the Spanish language have a long history and presence in the United States due to historic Spanish and later , Mexican administration over territories now forming the southwestern states as well as Florida , which was Spanish territory till 1821 ?
midi Why is spanish spoken by some communities in Angola ?
easy Is spanish the primary language of 20 countries worldwide ?
midi When was spanish removed from official status ?
midi When was spanish an official language of the Philippines from the beginning of Spanish rule ?
easy Does spanish have no official recognition in the former British colony of Belize ?
midi What is widely spoken in Gibraltar , although English is the official language ?
midi When did President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo encourage the reintroduction of Spanish-language teaching in the Philippine education system ?
easy Is the variety with the most speakers Mexican Spanish ?
easy Is spanish an official language of the European Union ?
easy Is such a phonemic merger called yeísmo in Spanish ?
easy Is spanish co-official with English in Puerto Rico ?
easy Have two etymologies for español been suggested ?
easy Is spanish the most popular second language learned by native speakers of American English ?
easy Does most of Spain maintain the formalfamiliar distinction with ustedes and vosotros respectively ?
easy Can be accented when used as pronouns ?
easy Does stress most often occur on any of the last three syllables of a word , with some rare exceptions at the fourth-last or earlier syllables ?
easy Is spanish syntax considered right-branching , meaning that subordinate or modifying constituents tend to be placed after their head words ?
easy Are spanish loan words present in the local languages of these territories as a legacy of colonial rule ?
easy Is spanish a part of the Ibero-Romance group of languages , which evolved from several dialects of common Latin in Iberia after the collapse of the Western Roman Empire in the 5th century ?
easy Can some words be different , even significantly so , in different Hispanophone countries ?
easy Is Papaya the slang term for " vagina " in parts of Cuba and Venezuela , where the fruit is instead called fruta bomba and lechosa , respectively ?
easy Were speakers of the Zamboangueño variety of Chavacano numbered about 360,000 in the 2000 census ?
easy Is a related dialect Haketia , the Judaeo-Spanish of northern Morocco ?
easy Does the Royal Spanish Academy consider the v pronunciation for the letter ⟨v⟩ to be incorrect and affected ?
easy Were many words borrowed from Latin through the influence of written language and the liturgical language of the Church ?
easy Is spanish the official or national language of 19 countries in the Americas and totaling at least 418 million native speakers in the Hemisphere ?
