hard Can in tropical regions Crux be seen in the sky from September to June ?
midi When did later adopters of the constellation include Jakob Bartsch ?
easy Is Crux sometimes confused with the nearby False Cross by stargazers ?
hard Is Mu Crucis divisible in large amateur telescopes or large binoculars ?
midi What is a Beta Cephei-type Cepheid variable with a variation of less than 0.1 magnitudes ?
easy Does a stylized version of Crux appear on the Australian Eureka Flag ?
hard Does Crux boast five Cepheid variables that reach naked eye visibility ?
midi What is the dimmest of the Southern Cross stars ?
easy Is the whole constellation visible to observers south of latitude 25°N ?
hard Is Crux hardly visible from the southern hemisphere at practically any time of year ?
midi When was the hotel demolished ?
easy Is Royer sometimes wrongly cited as initially distinguishing Crux ?
easy Did neighboring peoples in the Marshall Islands saw these stars as a fish ?
easy Are there several dimmer stars within the borders of Crux ?
easy Are 15 of the 23 brightest stars blue-white B-type stars ?
easy Are the dogs ' heads marked by Alpha and Beta Centauri ?
easy Have two star systems been found to have planets ?
easy Was Melbourne 's Spencer Street Station rebuilt and renamed " Southern Cross Station " in 2006 ?
easy Will the tip of the thumb indicate south ?
easy Do other members include the blue-white stars Zeta , Lambda , Mu1 and Mu2 ?
easy Are nearly as bright Beta and Gamma , while Delta and Epsilon make up the asterism ?
easy Are many of the constellation 's brighter stars members of the Scorpius–Centaurus Association , a loose group of hot blue-white stars that appear to share a common origin and motion across the Milky Way ?
easy Did Explorer Amerigo Vespucci depict Crux as an almond , called " Mandorla " ?
easy Do Acrux and Mimosa make up one foot of the Great Rhea , a constellation encompassing Centaurus and Circinus along with the two bright stars ?
easy Is a technique used in the field to clench one 's right fist and to view the cross , aligning the first knuckle with the axis of the cross ?
easy Does the 1981 Black Sabbath album Mob Rules feature the song " The Sign of the Southern Cross " , whose lyrics were written by then member and vocalist Ronnie James Dio ?
easy Are there 5 main stars ?
easy Was Melbourne 's Southern Cross Hotel built and named in 1962 and was one of the city 's foremost hotels during the decade ?
easy Was the 1974 Australian America 's Cup Challenger named " Southern Cross " KA 4 representing the Royal Perth Yacht Club and was defeated 4-0 sailing off Newport Rhode Island by " Courageous " US26 sailing for the New York Yacht Club ?
easy Did Southern Cross become the trial horse for the 1977 Australian Challenger " Australia " KA 5 representing the Sun City Yacht Club that was defeated 4-0 sailing off Newport Rhode Island by Courageous US26 sailing for the New York Yacht Club ?
