hard Were ancient guqins made of little less than wood and strings of twisted silk ?
midi Why is the guqin sometimes inaccurately called a lute ?
easy Are a number of qin melodies program music depicting the natural world ?
hard Do Contemporary qin players extend from the late twentieth century to the present ?
midi What is the longest excerpt included on the disc ?
easy Was the construction of the written tablature divided into two columns ?
hard Did ornaments include inlaid dots of mother-of-pearl or other different materials ?
midi When were the below recordings made ?
easy Can the detail be very concise to extremely detailed and thorough ?
hard Are modern instruments most frequently made of Cunninghamia or other different timbers ?
midi What is therefore , the instrument with the most finger techniques in either Chinese or Western music ?
easy Was such schools generally formed around areas where qin activity greatest ?
hard Are the below four figures from an old handbook ?
midi What is often a good opportunity to network and learn to play the instrument , to ask questions and to receive answers ?
easy Has the modern form been standardized for about two millennia ?
midi What is sometimes referred to by the Chinese as " the father of Chinese music " or " the instrument of the sages " ?
midi When was guqin music proclaimed as one of the Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity by UNESCO ?
easy Do northern schools tend to be more vigorous in technique than Southern schools ?
easy Have qin tablatures from the Song era onwards catalogued a plethora of qin forms ?
easy Are the differences often in interpretation of the music ?
easy Have western composers noticed that the rhythm in a piece of qin music can change ?
easy Are the really empty sounds the pauses between notes ?
easy Was the second column devoted to qin tablature ?
easy Did korean literati want to play an instrument the way their Chinese counterparts played the qin ?
easy Are qin pieces usually around three to eight minutes in length , with the longest being " Guangling San " , which is 22 minutes long ?
easy Do players mainly learn popular well transcribed versions , often using a recording as a reference ?
easy Has each part of the qin meaning , some more obvious , like " dragon pool " and " phoenix pond " ?
easy Is a more faithful representation of the qin in the Zhang Yimou film Hero , in which Xu Kuanghua plays an ancient version of the qin in the courtyard scene while Nameless and Long Sky fight at a weiqi parlor ?
easy Are other tunings achieved by adjusting the tension of the strings using the tuning pegs at the head end ?
easy Do many traditionalists feel that the sound of the fingers of the left hand sliding on the strings to be a distinctive feature of qin music ?
