hard Does the city have proportionately small number ?
midi When did an Indian Premier League cricket team based in Pune begin play ?
easy Are these administered by the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation ?
hard Is FC Pune City an Indian Super League football franchise in Pune , Maharashtra , that will begin play in April 2014 during the inaugural season of the Indian Super League.The team will be owned and operated by Bollywood actor Hritik Roshan and the Wadhawan Group ?
midi When was the Pune Municipality established ?
easy Is Dhanraj Pillay ex-captain of the Indian national field hockey team ?
midi What is a resort for meditation and yoga ?
midi What is operated for Diesel Locomotives ?
easy Does Dwarkamai at Shirgaon hold Sai Dhuni which is kept lit permanently ?
midi When did David Sassoon die in the city ?
midi When was the Lal Mahal completed ?
easy Are Abhijit Kunte and Pravin Thipsay chess grandmasters and national champions ?
easy Is Pune considered the cultural capital of Maharashtra ?
easy Are both public and private transport popular in Pune ?
easy Were the 2008 Commonwealth Youth Games held in Pune ?
easy Is there a significant Punjabi population in Pune ?
easy Is Adlabs Imagica another attraction near Khopoli ?
easy Was the Group originally set up in Kirloskarwadi ?
easy Are all the railway lines to Pune broad gauge ?
easy Is Islam the second largest religion in Pune ?
easy Has a rapid transit system been proposed in Pune and is scheduled to begin operations in 2013 ?
easy Is the automotive sector prominent in Pune ?
easy Is the land controlled by the Indian Army ?
easy Is Hinduism the dominant religion in Pune ?
easy Does Central Pune have Brahmin majority ?
easy Is the club closed during the monsoons ?
easy Is another speciality Bakarvadi , a crispy snack item ?
easy Is the aqueduct still operational ?
easy Did the concept of Diwāḷī Pahāṭ originate in Pune as a music festival on the morning of the festival of Diwali ?
easy Is Pune city the administrative headquarters of Pune district and was once the centre of power of the Maratha Empire ?
