hard Is the yangqin a chromatic instrument with a range of slightly over five octaves ?
midi When do according to one thesis written by Mr Chew ?
easy Are the pegs and screws covered during playing by a hinged panelboard ?
hard Are there usually five to five bridges on a yangqin ?
midi What is also spelled yang quin or yang ch'in ?
easy Did both modern and earlier yangqin mallets do not include finger grips ?
hard Are the yangqin 's tuning pins set in serial instead of a 90-degree angle down at the side ?
easy Is the yangqin used both as a solo instrument and in ensembles ?
easy Are the instruments also sometimes known by the names " santur " and " cymbalom " ?
easy Are the instrument 's strings struck with two lightweight bamboo beaters with rubber tips ?
easy Did Portuguese trading in Chinese waters begin in the 16th century according to historians ?
easy Can the modern yangqin have as many as five courses of bridges and may be arranged chromatically ?
easy Did another theory of how the yangqin come into contact with the Chinese is through the Silk Road ?
easy Have some historians stated that the European clavichord is another possible precursor to the Yangqin ?
easy Was the yangqin traditionally fitted with bronze strings , which gave the instrument a soft timbre ?
easy Does the yangqin have also been modified , much like an electric guitar , to be an amplified electronic instrument ?
easy Is the zhu shaped like the guqin - rectangular , with one side wider than the other ?
easy Does the word " yangqin " have historically been written in two different ways , using different Chinese characters for " yang " ?
easy Is the technical structure of the santur different in the way the tuning pegs are place , the bridges and the mallets ?
easy Are the sticks held , one in each hand , and hit the strings alternately ?
easy Are the pitches arranged so that in general , moving one section away from the player 's body corresponds to a transposition of a whole tone upwards ?
easy Are the Thai and Cambodian khim nearly identical in their construction , having been introduced to those nations by southern Chinese musicians ?
easy Is Middle C located on the tenor bridge , third course from the bottom ?
easy Is another theory supported by some music scholars that the yangqin was developed in Yangzhou , a city in Jiangsu Province ?
easy Does a professional musician often carry several sets of beaters , each of which draws a slightly different tone from the instrument , much like the drum sticks of Western percussionists ?
easy Does the yangqin 's solo repertoire call for more techniques than is usually required in orchestral pieces ?
easy Do more modern designs also have moveable ball-shaped nuts that can be adjusted on the fly with the fingers ?
easy Are these only rules of thumb since the arrangement has to be modified towards the extremes of the pitch range to fill out notes in the chromatic scale ?
