hard Were however these limited to popular literature till the late 19th century ?
midi What is one of the six official languages of the United Nations ?
easy Do a comparison table of zhuyin to pinyin exists in the zhuyin article ?
hard Are chinese characters morphemes dependent of phonetic change ?
midi Why do most linguists prefer instead to call Chinese a family of languages ?
easy Are both terms customarily translated into English as " dialect " ?
hard Have borrowed Chinese morphemes been used extensively in all these languages to coin compound words for new concepts , in a different way to the use of Latin and Ancient Greek roots in European languages ?
midi What is based on the Beijing dialect , which is the dialect of Mandarin as spoken in Beijing ?
easy Is chinese spoken by the Han majority and many other ethnic groups in China ?
easy Did the 18th-century Kangxi Dictionary recognize 214 radicals ?
easy Does each Chinese character represent a monosyllabic Chinese word or morpheme ?
easy Is chinese often described as a " monosyllabic " language ?
easy Are there currently two systems for Chinese characters ?
easy Are modern characters styled after the regular script ?
easy Is vietnamese written with a Latin-based alphabet ?
easy Are all varieties of Chinese tonal and analytic ?
easy Is english influence particularly pronounced ?
easy Is the most widespread the Palladius system ?
easy May in parts of Fujian the speech of neighbouring counties or even villages be mutually unintelligible ?
easy Did classical Chinese literature begin in the Spring and Autumn period , although written records have been discovered as far back as the 14th to 11th centuries BCE Shang dynasty oracle bones using the oracle bone scripts ?
easy Is chinese morphology strictly bound to a set number of syllables with a fairly rigid construction which are the morphemes , the smallest blocks of the language ?
easy Have chinese languages been phonetically transcribed into many other writing systems over the centuries ?
easy Is Buddhist terminology generally derived from Sanskrit or Pāli , the liturgical languages of North India ?
easy Do ancient words borrowed from along the Silk Road since Old Chinese include 葡萄 pútáo " grape " , 石榴 shíliú " pomegranate " and 狮子／獅子 shīzi " lion " ?
easy May a native of Guangzhou speak both Cantonese and putonghua , a resident of Taiwan , both Taiwanese and putonghuaguoyu ?
easy May a few dialects of north China have as few as three tones , while some dialects in south China have up to 6 or 10 tones , depending on how one counts ?
easy Are in cases where Simplified and Traditional Chinese scripts identical , the Chinese term is written once ?
easy Is chinese first known to have been written in Latin characters by Western Christian missionaries in the 16th century ?
easy Have western foreign words representing Western concepts influenced Chinese since the 20th century through transcription ?
easy Are the earliest examples of Chinese divinatory inscriptions on oracle bones from around 1250 BCE in the late Shang dynasty ?
