hard Is kaval different to the ney of the Arab world ?
midi What is played much like the kaval ?
easy Is in northern Greece the term kavali also used to denote the souravli ?
hard Is the Romanian caval dobrogean or caval bulgăresc a different instrument to the Bulgarian kaval ?
midi What is also very interesting to notice that the technique of circular breathing is successfully utilized while playing the kaval ?
easy Is the kaval that is most common in Bulgaria the one in middle register ?
hard Does the šupelka play the chromatic scale , except the first note of the higher octave ?
easy Is the Moldovan kaval a Hungarian-Romanian played in Csángó music ?
hard Are the finger-holes located in the central section , while the higher section has four additional holes called dushnitsi or dyavolski dupki ( ‘devil’s holes’ ) ?
easy Is a very characteristic sound of kaval achieved in the lowest register ?
hard Is a different use of the kaval also known in Macedonia and Kosovo , where one kaval of the pair is ‘male’ , the other ‘female’ ?
easy Does Change of the breath air pressure also change the pitch ?
hard Did when play , the kaval is held with both hands at an angle of approximately 45° from the body , with the five fingers of the one hand covering the lower holes ?
easy Does the kaval have 8 playing holes and usually 4 more near the bottom of the kaval ?
hard Are according to the pitch there five different registers that can be achieved with the Bulgarian kaval ?
easy Is in Epirus the end-blown kaval known as dzhamara ?
hard Does the kaval have 8 playing holes and usually five more unfingered intonation holes near the bottom of the kaval ?
easy Is the kaval primarily associated with mountain shepherds throughout the Balkans and Anatolia ?
easy Does the mouth cover ~¾ of the end ?
easy Is the presence or absence of a duct sometimes specified by the addition of a qualification : dilsiz kaval , dilli kaval ( ‘kaval with a tongue’ ) ?
easy Does the kaval play two octaves and a fifth , in the chromatic scale ?
easy Can the kaval be made in various tunings , D being the most common ?
easy Do bone rings cover the joints , to prevent the wood from cracking ?
easy May the name kaval once have been referred to various Balkan duct and rim-blown flutes , accounting for the present day diversity of the term’s usage ?
easy Is Metal decoration also found ?
easy Is in Turkey the term ‘kaval’ used generally to refer to all shepherd’s pipes and more particularly to ductless flutes ?
easy Is what is characteristic for the Bulgarian style of kaval performance the incredible diversity of sound shades and techniques ?
easy Is the kaval primarily associated with mountain shepherds throughout the Balkans and Anatolia and in the book Kaval : Traditional Folk Melodies for Balkan & amp ?
easy Does what controls which register the performer work in is mostly the air flow and to some extent the position of the mouth and the lips on the end of the kaval ?
