hard Do temperatures often turn abruptly colder in late March ?
midi When was a monument erected at the fiftieth anniversary of the revolt ?
easy Will the 2014 World Masters Athletics Championships be held in Budapest ?
hard Are day services usually from 4am till 23pm-0.30am ?
midi Why is the city 's importance in terms of traffic very central ?
easy Are the forests of Buda hills environmentally protected ?
hard Is another noteworthy structure the Budapest Western Railway Station , which was designed by May de Serres and built by the Eiffel Company of Paris in 1877 ?
midi Why is the city 's importance in terms of traffic very central ?
easy Was Hungary then incorporated into the Habsburg Empire ?
hard Did fighting continue till mid November , leaving more than 3000 dead ?
midi When was their first settlement pillaged by the Mongols ?
easy Was 1867 the year of Reconciliation that brought about the birth of Austria-Hungary ?
midi When was the first Hungarian book printed in Buda ?
midi When did the proportion of Jews peak ?
easy Did under Ottoman rule many Christians become Muslim ?
midi What is a UNESCO World Heritage Site ?
easy Does the latter three vehicles run among Buda hills ?
easy Are Hungary 's highest courts located in Budapest ?
easy Are other attractions the bridges of the capital ?
easy Were the hills formed in the Triassic Period ?
easy Does each department have various chambers ?
easy Were all bridges destroyed by the Germans ?
easy Was the city destroyed during the battle ?
easy Did between 1851 and 1910 the proportion of Hungarians increase from 35.6 % to 85.9 % , Hungarian became the dominant language , and German was crowded out ?
easy Are annually there 400,000 students in the higher education system ?
easy Are in Budapest there forty theatres , seven concert halls and an opera house ?
easy Were the Gellért Baths and Hotel built in 1918 , although there had once been Turkish baths on the site , and in the Middle Ages a hospital ?
easy Did Buda have about 5,000 inhabitants around 1500 ?
easy Do buildings to look for are no ?
easy Did Art Nouveau come into fashion in Budapest by the exhibitions which were held in and around 1896 and organised in connection with the Hungarian Millennium celebrations ?
