hard Would five to five people stretch the wet skin over the drum to apply tension while the pegs were driven into the bowl ?
midi Why does the difference in pitch of the sounds arise ?
easy Do a djembe tuned to solo pitch has a tone frequency of around 400 Hz ?
midi Why are skins from dry and hot-climate areas and poorly fed goats preferred for djembes ?
midi When were these supplemented by a three-volume VHS set by Keïta and , in 2000 , by a VHS tape by Epizo Bangoura ?
easy Are traditionally crafted djembes carved from a single log of hardwood ?
midi When were among the earliest educational resources available to a student of the djembe an educational VHS tape by Babatunde Olatunji released ?
easy Are these sounds achieved by varying the striking technique and position ?
easy Are there a number of different creation myths for the djembe ?
easy Do written transcriptions of rhythms tend to be imprecise ?
easy Is a competent user able to reproduce material learnt in a workshop for later use ?
easy Are hardness and density important factors for the sound and projection of the djembe ?
easy Did Djembe tourism create a market for djembefolas in Guinea that previously did not exist ?
easy Is anyone who plays djembe a djembefola—the term does not imply a particular level of skill ?
easy Does the bass have a frequency of 65–80 Hz ?
easy Do most djembe ropes have a polyester core with a 16‑ or 32‑plait mantle and around 5 % stretch ?
easy Did many other djembefolas follow suit ?
easy Are thin skins louder than thick ones ?
easy Do musicians and participants often form a circle , with the centre of the circle reserved for dancers ?
easy Do modern djembes exclusively use synthetic rope , most commonly of kernmantle construction , 4–5 mm in diameter ?
easy Are Individual solo dances not choreographed , with the dancer freely moving in whatever way feels appropriate at that moment ?
easy Do factory-made djembes often use skins made from synthetic materials , such as FiberSkyn ?
easy Did depending on the particular rhythm being play , dances maybe performed by groups of men andor women with choreographed steps , or single dancers may take turns at performing short solos ?
easy May an ensemble have only two dunun , depending on whether a village has enough dunun players and is wealthy enough to afford three dunun ?
easy Are a number of different wood species used , all of which are hard and dense ?
easy Was a long strip of cowhide used to lace up the drum , applying tension between the top ring and a third ring placed around the stem ?
easy Does a djembe and dunun ensemble traditionally do not play music for people to simply sit back and listen to ?
easy Did the Oscar-nominated 2007 drama The Visitor ensure that the djembe was noticed internationally by mainstream viewers ?
easy Are cycles longer than eight beats rare for djembe accompaniments—longer cycles are normally played only by the dununba or sangban ?
easy Does a well-carved djembe do not have a smooth interior but a texture of scallops or shallow grooves that influence the sound of the instrument ?
