hard Does the Sun appear in the constellation Leo from May 10 to Sept 10 ?
midi When is NGC 2903 a barred spiral galaxy discovered by William Herschel ?
easy Do the outskirts of the galaxy have many young open clusters ?
hard Are the December Leonids a minor shower that peaks between January 1 and 7 ?
midi What is a Mira variable with a minimum magnitude of 10 and normal maximum magnitude of 6 ?
easy Is Leo also home to some of the largest structures in the observable universe ?
hard Do the Leonids occur in February , peaking on November 14–15 , and have a radiant close to Gamma Leonis ?
midi What is a double star divisible in binoculars , with a secondary of magnitude 7.7 ?
easy Is the normal peak rate approximately 10 meteors per hour ?
hard Is Leo ˈliːoʊ one of the constellations of the zodiac , lying between Cancer to the east and Virgo to the east ?
easy Is Tau Leonis a double star visible in binoculars ?
hard Was Leo one of the earliest recognized constellations , with archaeological evidence that the Mesopotamians had a different constellation as early as 4000 BCE ?
easy Is m105 about a degree away from the M95M96 pair ?
hard Is the primary a gold-yellow giant star of magnitude 2.61 and the secondary is different but at magnitude 3.6 ?
easy Does the name Denebola mean " the lion 's tail " ?
easy Is 35 Leonis to the north and of magnitude 6.0 ?
easy Is Wolf 359 a red dwarf of magnitude 13.5 ?
easy Was the Lion impervious to any weaponry ?
easy Is the secondary a star of magnitude 8 ?
easy Does Leo contain many bright galaxies ?
easy Is Leo commonly represented as if the sickle-shaped asterism of stars is the back of the Lion 's head ?
easy Is Leo also home to one bright variable star , the red giant R Leonis ?
easy Do some mythologists believe that in Sumeria , Leo represented the monster Khumbaba , who was killed by Gilgamesh ?
easy Is Rhiannon or Epona the corresponding horse goddess of fertility or even mother goddess , associated with both , sun and moon ?
easy Has Rey suggested an alternative way to connect the stars , which graphically shows a lion walking ?
easy Does Leo contain many bright stars , many of which were individually identified by the ancients ?
easy Is m66 a spiral galaxy that is part of the Leo Triplet , whose other two members are M65 and NGC 3628 ?
easy Is the primary a blue-white star of magnitude 4.5 and the secondary is a blue-white star of magnitude 6.3 ?
easy Is m95 a barred spiral galaxy ?
easy Does the zodiac sign Leo creatively redrawn fit astonishingly to the chalk lines of the galloping White Horse of Uffington ?
