hard Is there a low level of immunization ?
midi When did Singapore produce about 10 % of the world 's foundry wafer output ?
easy Is an underlying principle political and economic stability in the region ?
hard Is adult obesity above 10 % ?
midi When were 20 % of all students in Singaporean universities international students ?
easy Did 17 % of the population do not have a religious affiliation ?
midi Why was Singapore commonly described in the press as the 'Gibraltar of the East ' ?
midi When was 32 % of healthcare funded by the government ?
easy Has piracy in the Strait of Malacca been a cause of concern for all three countries ?
midi When did Goh Chok Tong succeed Lee as Prime Minister ?
midi What is interchangeable with the Brunei dollar ?
easy Is Scuba diving another popular recreational sport ?
midi When did race riots break out once more ?
midi When did Singapore become part of the Straits Settlements , under the jurisdiction of British India , becoming the regional capital in 1836 ?
easy Is private ownership of TV satellite dishes banned ?
midi When did the entire island become a British possession under a further treaty with the Sultan , as well as the Temenggong ?
midi When did Thomas Stamford Raffles arrive and signed a treaty with Sultan Hussein Shah of Johor , on behalf of the British East India Company , to develop the southern part of Singapore as a British trading post ?
easy Is Singlish heavily discouraged by the government ?
midi When did the British surrender ?
midi When did Portuguese raiders burned down the settlement and the island sink into obscurity for the next two centuries ?
easy Does Singapore have a reputation as a nanny state ?
easy Has the government disputed Amnesty 's claims ?
easy Is Singapore a very diverse and young country ?
easy Are Singaporean Indians much more religious ?
easy Is the average household size 3.47 persons ?
easy Is only the primary level compulsory ?
easy Is the rate of home ownership 87 % ?
easy Is acute poverty rare in Singapore ?
easy Did singaporean leaders choose to join Malaysia primarily due to concerns regarding their limited land size and scarcity of land , water , markets and natural resources ?
easy Were New Zealand troops the last to leave , in 1989 ?
