hard Are hindu legends surrounding Andromeda different to the Greek myths ?
midi What is considered to be one of the more inconspicuous open clusters ?
easy Is Andromeda known as " the Chained Lady " or " the Chained Woman " in English ?
hard Was NGC 891 discovered by the brother-and-sister team of William and Caroline Herschel in May 1783 ?
midi What is a red-hued main-sequence BY Draconis variable star of type M6 ?
easy Do andromedid meteors sometimes appear as red fireballs ?
hard Is Andromeda the location of the radiant for the Andromedids , a weak meteor shower that occurs in February ?
midi When did the observers of the 2011 outburst predict outbursts ?
easy Is the primary an orange-hued giant star of type K0 ?
midi When were the official boundaries of Andromeda defined ?
midi What is connected with the constellation Pegasus ?
easy Is the primary a main-sequence star of type B5 ?
midi What is one of the largest constellations , with an area of 722 square degrees ?
midi What is an enormous – 192.4 by 62.2 arcminutes in apparent size – barred spiral galaxy similar in form to the Milky Way and at an approximate magnitude of 3.5 , is one of the brightest deep-sky objects in the northern sky ?
easy Are there 6 other Mira variables in Andromeda ?
midi What is a loosely scattered cluster in the Milky Way that measures 49 arcminutes across and features approximately twelve bright stars , although more than 60 stars of approximately 9th magnitude become visible at low magnifications in a telescope ?
midi What is a barred spiral galaxy seen edge-on , with a dark dust lane visible down the middle ?
easy Is m110 classified as either a dwarf spheroidal galaxy or simply a generic elliptical galaxy ?
midi What is an A0p class binary star with an overall apparent visual magnitude of 2.1 and a luminosity of 96 L☉ ?
easy Was 54 And a former designation for φ Per ?
easy Did none of the meteoroids observe were associated with material from the comet 's 1846 disintegration ?
easy Do Astronomers have often associated the Andromedids with Biela 's Comet , which was destroyed in the 19th century , but that connection is disputed ?
easy Is Andromeda most prominent during autumn evenings in the Northern Hemisphere , along with several other constellations named for characters in the Perseus myth ?
easy Do Ancient Sanskrit texts depict Antarmada chained to a rock , as in the Greek myth ?
easy Was Almach named for the Arabic phrase ʿAnaq al-Ard , which means " the earth-kid " , an obtuse reference to an animal that aids a lion in finding prey ?
easy Is Almach a multiple star with a yellow primary of magnitude 2.3 and a blue-green secondary of magnitude 5.0 , separated by 9.7 arcseconds ?
easy Was the 2011 outburst linked to ejecta from Comet Biela , which passed close to the Sun in 1649 ?
easy Is 56 And an optical binary star ?
easy Is m31 the largest neighboring galaxy to the Milky Way and the largest member of the Local Group of galaxies ?
easy Is Andromeda one of the 48 constellations listed by the 2nd-century Greco-Roman astronomer Ptolemy and remains one of the 88 modern constellations ?
