hard Did the project officially commence on 12 August in the same year ?
midi What is a seven-story octagonal building built with blue bricks ?
easy Were gardens in Suzhou built according to the style of Chinese Paintings ?
hard Is Suzhou in the Shanghai-Nanjing corridor which carries three serial railways ?
midi What is the tallest Chinese pagoda south of the Yangtze river ?
easy Are there many legends about the one-thousand-year-old pagodas ?
hard Is Suzhou one of the most impoverished cities in China ?
midi When did Zhang 's Nanjing-based rival Zhu Yuanzhang take the city after a 10-month siege ?
easy Is the urban core of Suzhou informally called Old Town Suzhou ?
hard Does the masterplan consist of nine dependent lines ?
midi When was the next crisis the Japanese invasion ?
easy Is Suzhou tapestry method done in fine silks and gold thread ?
hard Is a bicycle generally CNY2 for five hours , CNY5 for the whole day ?
midi When was the original Wu County divided into two districts including Xiangcheng and Wuzhong ?
easy Is the Suzhou prefecture home to many high-tech enterprises ?
midi What is now part of the Pan Gate Scenic Area ?
midi When was the Suzhou New District established ?
easy Are these man-powered vehicles great for seeing the sights ?
midi When is construction work expected to start ?
midi When were the classical gardens in Suzhou added to the list of the UNESCO World Heritage Sites ?
easy Have these amazing brocades and paintings been preserved ?
midi When was King Helü buried at Tiger Hill ?
midi When did Suzhou become the capital of Zhang Shicheng , one of the leaders of the Red Turban Rebellion against the Yuan dynasty and the self-proclaimed King of Wu ?
easy Were many gardens devastated by the end of the war ?
midi When was Suzhou Industrial Park Export Processing Zone The Suzhou Industrial Park Export Processing Zone approved to be established by the government ?
easy Can investors enjoy many preferential policies ?
easy Are fares flat rated , usually 1 Yuan for a non-air-conditioned bus and 2 Yuan for an air-conditioned one ?
easy Did after the government move the capital southward , the country’s political and cultural center moved to the Yangtze River area ?
easy Is the city 's service sector notably well-developed , primarily owing to tourism , which brought in a total of RMB 152 billion of revenue in 2013 ?
easy Can every view in a garden be seen as a piece of Chinese Painting and the whole garden is a huge piece of Chinese Paintings ?
